>> Kyle Simpson: So
lets take a look at template strings.
And I'll be completely honest with you,
when ES6 came out with this feature,
I sort of overlooked it.
Not over looked it I did learn
about it and understand it, but
I didn't really get that
it would be that critical,
that important, and
then in a slow burn basically.
Not overnight but in a slow burn little by
little, by little, this is moved it's way
up my list to become one of my favorite
features that landed in the language.
And it turns out that I'm
using it on a daily basis,
hundreds of times a day almost.
So it's a really interesting
little feature and
it goes by the name Template Strings.
But I don't think that's a very good name
for this because the word template implies
this idea that it is something that
could be repeated over and over again.
Most developers have this conception in
their mind that a template is something
that you could re-render with
different data over and over again.
And these are not that at all,
they're like a one time,
they're almost like an iffy function,
it's a one time shot, it's done,
it's a string that's fully baked.
So I like to think of these
as interpolated literals, and
I know that's a big mouth phrase.
So if you're looking for like a short kind
of fancy sounding name to make yourself
sound smart, start referring
to these as interpoliterals.
Or just keep calling them template
strings like everybody else does.
So what problem are template
strings trying to solve?
Certainly many of you, if not all of you,
have had on a regular basis occasion to
have to have to concatenate
strings together.
Not just strings with strings,
but strings with data values.
In this case, the data values are strings,
but a lot of times, they're other things,
like numbers, or Booleans, or other sorts
of representations of values, and so
this idea of stringing values together
to produce one larger string.
I didn't know for many,
many years, until in fact ES6,
I didn't know this had a term.
I just did it, I was like is just
string concatenating with data.
I didn't know that there was an official
term for this called interpolation.
And I also didn't realize that this was a
feature that had already been supported in
a variety of other languages
prior to JavaScript.
I didn't even realize
that I had encountered it
once before years earlier in
a different language which was PHP.
Prior even to PHP, my background was more
C programming that's where I got a lot of
my start in programming was in,
I did a lot of C and C++ programming.
And for whatever reason, I got used
to double quotes around my strings.
I know that many people are more familiar
or more used to using the single quotes,
but I just got into the habit
of using the double quotes.
So of course,
I was using double quotes in PHP and
everything seemed to be going fine.
And then one day, one of my strings
started printing values inside of
it that were entirely not
what I was expecting.
And I was like, what is happening?
And I dug into this, and searched,
and Googled it and asked people.
And then I found out that
double quoted strings in PHP
behave differently than
single quoted string.
And nobody had ever told me this,
I've been developing [LAUGH] PHP for
five years.
Nobody told me that in double quoted
strings, if you have a dollar sign,
they use the dollar sign in variables,
if you have a dollar sign and
then a word immediately after it, and
that happens to match one of the variable
names that's in scope, it will
automatically replace that reference
with the actual value of that variable.
And I had no idea [LAUGH]
that that was happening.
And I learned about this idea that
they'll go ahead and drop it in, but
I didn't even know that that had a name
and that feature is called interpolation.
And I wish I had that perspective to say,
that what we need and
I would've been advocating for JavaScript
to have this a lot earlier than it did.
Because this, quite frankly,
works we've all done that kind of approach
to our code, but it's not ideal at all.
This is a perfect example of that
very imperative approach to code.
Because to figure out the final string,
you have to essentially
mentally execute this code.
You gotta pick the bits and pieces, and
figure out where
the concatenation operators are.
And so a much better way of doing this
would be to declare what our final string
would be and have placeholders for
where we want values to be dropped in.
And that's what we get with this
new template strings feature.
Unfortunately, they can't just change
the string literal like the double or
the single quote cuz they
would break somebody's code.
No matter what pattern you used to
delimit a value in your string, there's
a guarantee that somebody out there is
already got that in their strings and
they don't want their code to
break like mine did one day.
They don't want their code to break and so
we had to add a whole new kind of string
literal to support that
automatic interpolation.
And they chose to use the backtick
operator to indicate this is
a different kind of string,
wherein inside of the string there will be
these expressions that will be replaced,
at that moment they will be replaced
with whatever their value is.
And you'll note here that
the expression that you use to
delimit is a dollar sign and
then the curly braces surround it.
Inside of the curly braces is essentially
any expression that you wanna do.
It's often gonna be a variable, but
it could be a whole JavaScript expression,
a whole JavaScript program for
that matter.
Can be a function call,
it can even be a template literal inside
of that expression if you need it to be.
And I've done that on some occasions.
So you'll typically see this
used with the variables because
that's the most common use cases to
drop in the value of a variable.
Why I said that we shouldn't be calling
these template strings is actually,
literally, the first time I tried
to learn about this feature,
with the word template string in my head.
I tried to figure out okay, how do I
get access to the template of this so
that I can re-render it with
different variables every time?
And I spent more than half
a day messing around,
trying to figure it out,
trying to experiment with it.
And then finally somebody on Twitter
corrected me and they're like no,
it's not a template,
it's already the string.
It's not really appropriate to think of
it as a thing that will produce a string,
it is the string itself.
It's just the fact that there's a bit of
pre-processing that goes in as that string
is happening.
So really the best mental model
is it kind of like an iffy,
an immediately invoke function expression.
You describe what string you want and
it immediately goes and construct and
builds that string and drops it in.
So, if you were to ask what
is the type of message here?
It's not some object or template,
it's an actual primitive string.
That's the result of
that backtick delimiter.
Just a quick note on the backticks by
the way, this is just a personal rant.
I understand why they chose that
operator because it certainly
has a nice visual similarity to
single quotes and double quotes.
But that particular choice of
backtick is a bit frustrating for
some of us who like to write
about JavaScript and we do so
in Markdown format, like I've written
all of my books in Markdown format.
And Markdown uses the backtick
as the way you indicate code,
like inline code or code blocks.
So if you are trying to do
an inline code reference and
include a single backtick,
I'm not lying that actually takes five
backticks to show one backtick and
inline code.
Five backticks and two paces.
You have to do backtick, backtick, space,
and then the backtick you wanna show and
then another space and
then two backticks on it.
They didn't have something sensible
like backslash or whatever, so
you had to do this crazy other thing.
Anyway, it's more difficult to
write about in Markdown, but
nonetheless, it's a great feature.
And again, I started using
this in a few little places,
like when I was printing
messages to a page or whatever.
But where I really started using
this is in my console messages,
console.log messages.
And I started using this
all over the place and
now it's probably one of the most
predominant features in the code base.
Another note about these template strings
is that you'll see on the end of line 5,
it's not just for saving space in
the slides, I actually broke across
a line without having to do
a backslash at the end of the line.
With regular strings, that is the classic,
double or single-quoted string, if you
want to continue a string onto another
line, that's called string continuation.
If you wanna continue onto another line,
you have to put a backslash at the end of
the line, which is fine,
but it's kind of annoying.
And these template strings,
or these interpoliterals,
they automatically allow you
to break strings across lines.
Which can be quite helpful if you need to
write out a string across multiple lines
maybe for readability.
Just be aware that that content,
the new line that you put in there,
if you tab, indent,
all of that content is in the string.
That's not magically having that white
space removed, it's in the string.
So there is the downside if you don't
want that white space there you can use
that feature.
So this is part of that narrative that
I was talking about in the intro to
the course, which is that this
is a more declarative approach.
We're saying I just wanna string,
and JavaScript
please go figure out how to put these
values in to my string where I need them.